README.md, before:

# Common Parallel Rust

## Gist
- This repo exists to support synchronizing boilerplate elements across rust repos.
  - It houses branches designed for use with `git merge --allow-unrelated-histories`. ('parallel merge')
  - `main` is **NOT** designed for this purpose
    - `main` is a *living repository* -- which allows the impact of files changes to be directly observed
      - experience with templating systems (including one of my own) have shown that a 'template' that cannot be run and use normal tests and code verification mechanisms creates a fair bit of toil.
  - All of the branches for parallel merge are by-file subsets of main.
  - Branches:
    - `simple_config`
      - Rust & 3rd party config files that should see relatively little need for repo-specific changes
    - `config_with_just`
      - simple_config + a justfile, which is likely to see repo-specific changes and *and* should have any merges manually reviewed.
      - if more repo-scripting moves to cargo xtask we may also add a version of this with xtask files.  (until then manual synch is expected)
    - `workspace_init`
      - this is close to `main`, and could be a living repo in its own right.  It is not intended to be used to upstream changes for synchronization.  It's merely an alternative to repo-templating that takes advatnage of the living repository approach already in use here.

## Merging Code
```zsh
REMOTE_REPO='git@github.com:dream-dasher/common_parallel_rust.git'
ALIAS_OF_REMOTE='common_par'
REMOTE_BRANCH_TO_MERGE='workspace_init|config_with_just|simple_config'
git remote add $ALIAS_OF_REMOTE $REMOTE_REPO
git fetch $LOCAL_ALIAS
git fetch --all
git merge --allow-unrelated-histories $ALIAS_OF_REMOTE/$REMOTE_BRANCH_TO_MERGE 
```
`(opt: --strategy-option theirs)`
`(opt: --no-commit --no-ff)`


## Updating Branches
The default branch-merge strategy is to only modify files and not add them.
(Again, branches are by-file subsets of `main`)
```zsh
echo 'Merging main without commit of fast-forward.'
git merge --no-commit --no-ff main
echo 'Removing all files in HEAD that are new relative to main.'
gd --name-only --diff-filter=A HEAD main |
  xargs -I _ rm -rf _
echo 'Removing all untracked files.'
git clean -f .
echo 'Re-adding all changes; only modified files should be set for merge.'
git add .
```
Caveats:
 - we are comparing `HEAD` and `main`, which is correct for precisely the above, but a bit indirect
 - this does not filter within-file references to non-merged files
   - by design the system should work that way
   - this can create minor issues with the justfile (e.g. where `x` is a `cargo xtask` alias for centralization of control)
     - acceptable for now
     - if we couldn't accept errors we wouldn't be running shell scripts

## Cloning Repo
(using local aliases)
```zsh
ghrg common_par
gh repo clone <cmd-y shift-_>
c common_par...
gfa
<for each: git checkout <x>>
```

Commit message:

docs: note on merging new files into branches

README.md, after:

# Common Parallel Rust

## Gist
- This repo exists to support synchronizing boilerplate elements across rust repos.
  - It houses branches designed for use with `git merge --allow-unrelated-histories`. ('parallel merge')
  - `main` is **NOT** designed for this purpose
    - `main` is a *living repository* -- which allows the impact of files changes to be directly observed
      - experience with templating systems (including one of my own) have shown that a 'template' that cannot be run and use normal tests and code verification mechanisms creates a fair bit of toil.
  - All of the branches for parallel merge are by-file subsets of main.
  - Branches:
    - `simple_config`
      - Rust & 3rd party config files that should see relatively little need for repo-specific changes
    - `config_with_just`
      - simple_config + a justfile, which is likely to see repo-specific changes and *and* should have any merges manually reviewed.
      - if more repo-scripting moves to cargo xtask we may also add a version of this with xtask files.  (until then manual synch is expected)
    - `workspace_init`
      - this is close to `main`, and could be a living repo in its own right.  It is not intended to be used to upstream changes for synchronization.  It's merely an alternative to repo-templating that takes advatnage of the living repository approach already in use here.

## Merging Code
```zsh
REMOTE_REPO='git@github.com:dream-dasher/common_parallel_rust.git'
ALIAS_OF_REMOTE='common_par'
REMOTE_BRANCH_TO_MERGE='workspace_init|config_with_just|simple_config'
git remote add $ALIAS_OF_REMOTE $REMOTE_REPO
git fetch $LOCAL_ALIAS
git fetch --all
git merge --allow-unrelated-histories $ALIAS_OF_REMOTE/$REMOTE_BRANCH_TO_MERGE 
```
`(opt: --strategy-option theirs)`
`(opt: --no-commit --no-ff)`


## Updating Branches
The default branch-merge strategy is to only modify files and not add them.
(Again, branches are by-file subsets of `main`)
```zsh
echo 'Merging main without commit of fast-forward.'
git merge --no-commit --no-ff main
echo 'Removing all files in HEAD that are new relative to main.'
gd --name-only --diff-filter=A HEAD main |
  xargs -I _ rm -rf _
echo 'Removing all untracked files.'
git clean -f .
echo 'Re-adding all changes; only modified files should be set for merge.'
git add .
```
To *add* new files (which may have been previously ignored) the following may be necessary:
(Some non-clarity around how by-file merge decisions are made relative to previous merges points.)
```zsh
git restore --source=main -- <path/to/that_directory>
```

Caveats:
 - we are comparing `HEAD` and `main`, which is correct for precisely the above, but a bit indirect
 - this does not filter within-file references to non-merged files
   - by design the system should work that way
   - this can create minor issues with the justfile (e.g. where `x` is a `cargo xtask` alias for centralization of control)
     - acceptable for now
     - if we couldn't accept errors we wouldn't be running shell scripts


## Cloning Repo
(using local aliases)
```zsh
ghrg common_par
gh repo clone <cmd-y shift-_>
c common_par...
gfa
<for each: git checkout <x>>
```
